[THEME MUSIC]
>>ERICH VON DANIKEN: We
have all heard of the myths
and the legends of our history.
But is there another story?
[THEME MUSIC]
[ROOSTER CROWING]
The Maya is a cultural group
living in Central America.
And the Mayans, of course,
have their mythologies
about the gods that
visited from outer space.
The oldest Mayan city, to
our knowledge, is Tikal.
Tikal is in today's Guatemala.
And Tikal was probably
founded 1,000 years BC.
Just remember, ancient Rome
in Europe was founded 700 BC.
So this Tikal city of the Maya
is even older than ancient Rome
in Europe.
And that Tikal lays on a place
where nobody understands why.
You see, when a
tribe is traveling,
and when they
decide to construct
a city with some
pyramids and temples,
they always settle on a
place where there's water,
because humans need water--
water for drinking,
water for working,
water for the
construction, et cetera.
But in Tikal,
there is no water--
absolutely no river,
no creek, nothing.
The next water is a lake,
the Peten Itza, see,
about 40 kilometers away.
But the question first is,
why did the tribe of Maya
decide to settle down on
a place and to construct
their biggest, oldest city
on a place without water?
What is the reason for it?
And here, I have some idea.
In our time, we have many
so-called pilgrim places,
especially in the
Catholic religion--
for example, Fatima
in Portugal or Lourde
in France or
Guadalupe in Mexico.
These are holy places.
Why?
Because always someone from
out there, mostly Mother Mary,
descended.
And children said,
they were here.
I saw them here exactly.
So the place becomes
a holy place.
And the people decide to
make their construction,
their church, on that place
where they had their vision.
Now in Tikal, archaeologists
found a little inscription
in Maya language.
It says, "Here the gods
from heaven descended."
Which gods?
So I asked myself, was it like
today in our pilgrim places?
They constructed Tikal
because there, some time,
a god descended, not
because they had no water.
I said, the nearest water is the
lake Peten, 40 kilometers away.
So they had to make
artificial water drains.
So the water, they
come to Tikal.
In Tikal we have more than
60 pyramids, most of them
are orientated archaeologically.
The biggest pyramid still
today is open for tourists.
You can look up
there to the sky.
And we don't know what
for these pyramids were.
Normally, we say, for
example, in Egypt,
the pyramids were made because
they were tombs for the gods
or for the pharaohs,
but not in Tikal.
No tombs were found,
no graves, nothing.
So we don't understand.
You say, maybe they used to
construct high pyramids just
to overlook the
forest, the jungle.
But they can be
connected with the stars.
But why then so many pyramids,
60 of it in one place?
Why not only two or three?
We don't have the answer for it.
In Tikal, for example,
we have many stelaes.
Stelaes are stone blocks, mostly
about two and a half meter
high, with engravings
and chiselings on it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And one of these stelaes shows
the first and the oldest god.
You see some human being,
their head is cut off.
You don't see the head.
But you see the chest, two
hands, and he's holding
something between his fingers.
And then you see his
legs and his shoes.
Normally, the Mayans
had no shoes at all.
They had naked feet or sandals.
But these kind of shoes
look like the shoes
of an extraterrestrial.
And in the center you
see something going down
like a spiral, making a
curve, going into a basket
or into a box.
So probably they represented,
in that way, the oldest god,
who descended to them in Tikal.
One of the next cities
of Tikal is Tulum.
Tulum is located on
the Caribbean Sea.
And the city of Tulum was just
honored to the descending gods.
Every temple in Tulum shows
a descending god, which means
in practice, you see a stone.
You see something, some human
beings had a head in front.
Then their legs,
spread legs, they
are lying on something
like a bobsled.
They are descending
from the heavens.
Today, archaeologists
call these descending
gods the gods of the bees.
But every normal
being had nothing
to do with bees, especially
the whole city of Tulum
is dedicated to descending gods.
And you see these figures
who came down from heaven,
often with wings on,
with technological stuff
in their hands.
You see them only
also in Chichen Itza
and in other Maya places.
Whole Maya land was
dedicated to the god.
One of the most known god of
the Maya was Quetzalcoatl.
And Quetzalcoatl was described.
He was coming from
the morning star.
He teached the human.
He teached them in astronomy
and other belongings,
including construction
of buildings.
And before he left, Kukulkan
promised to return one day.
Now, Kukulkan, Quetzalcoatl--
it's all the same figure,
just with different names.
In the lower land, the
Mayans called him Kukulkan.
In the higher lands, they
called him Quetzalcoatl.
It's always the same figure.
Our archaeologists
today, because they
don't believe in
extraterrestrials,
they don't want to have
to do with some humans
or human-like figures descending
as teachers from heaven.
They call these
descending gods the bees.
But in reality, a
bee is an insect.
The gods which are
chiseled in stone in Tulum,
in Chichen Itza, have
nothing to do with bees.
And you see descending
human-like beings
with some kind technical
apparatus in their hands.
But archaeologists call
it the descending bees,
which in my opinion is
absolutely ridiculous.
It had nothing to do with bees.
Our archaeologists will have
to change their minds sooner
or later.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Tikal is in today's Guatemala.
Guatemala has, of course, a
museum, like every capital.
And in the Museum
of Guatemala, you'll
find different gods, heads
of the gods with helmets
on, sometimes with the
apparatuses on their noses,
because they had an artificial
breathing, et cetera.
I know the old mythologists.
And many of the
mythologists speak
about the gods who descended.
And they did not
breathe like humans.
For example, Abraham, in
the Abraham epigraphic,
he makes contact with
two extraterrestrials.
And he said they did
not breathe like humans.
Now in Tikal, we find
some of these heads.
Not only in Tikal,
also in Chichen Itza.
And they had some artificial
breathing apparatuses
before their noses.
I think they must have
used some kind of filter
against our bacteria and
viruses on our planet.
While the technology
compared to Egypt
is partly primitive,
in Egypt, the pyramids
were constructed out of big
blocks, huge blocks, sometimes
two and a half
tons or even more.
But in Central America,
including in Tikal,
the pyramids are constructed
out of small blocks, just piece
by piece.
So it was not a very
high advanced technology.
But in Egypt, for
example, on the pyramid,
there are no
sculptures, no writings.
Nothing is chiseled on
the wall of the pyramids.
Why?
The pyramids in
Central America, they
are full with chiselings
which represent [INAUDIBLE]
of their descending gods.
This is something
absolutely sensational,
the pyramid of Chichen Itza.
And I suggest every tourist,
when you come to Mexico,
visit Chichen Itza.
And if you have a
chance, be there
in the early morning
of March 21st.
You see, the pyramid
of Chichen Itza
is constructed of
nine different steps.
It's a step pyramid, one
step smaller to the other.
And the pyramid is
located in a way,
astronomically, that every
21st of March, some miracle
happens there.
You see the sun is going up.
And because of the
construction of the 9 steps,
because of the
astronomical orientation,
you see a god or a snake
composed of light and shadow,
going slowly down the
step, slowly down.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And by the way,
on the staircase,
left and right, is the so-called
winged snake, the flying snake.
So you see on 21st of
March in the early morning,
you see light and
shadow, light and shadow,
slowly going down
the stairways exactly
on the back of the winged snake.
And on the 21st of September,
you see the opposite.
This time, when
the sun goes down,
the light and shadow
climbs up the stairs
and finally disappears.
The situation which
they have shown,
the Maya constructors in their
astronomy, is sensational.
They prove in the
building, in the pyramid,
some god descended.
He was teaching the
humans for a few years.
And he disappeared
again, with the promise
to return in a faraway future.
Chichen Itza is an absolute must
for every tourist in Mexico.
The Maya adored the gods
Quetzalcoatl or Kukulkan,
which is the same,
just a different name.
And Quetzalcoatl or
Kukulkan was always
represented as a
snake with wings.
Now the Maya were
natural people.
They knew that the
snake cannot fly.
Why do they show a
snake with wings?
I suggest because
they saw, in the sky,
they saw some flying machines.
And they looked like a snake.
It was a little long.
And a snake can fly, so
they put wings on it.
That's why Quetzalcoatl
the god or Kukulkan
the god is represented in the
Maya temple, in the sculpture,
as a winged snake.
Our ancestors, including
the Maya in Central America,
their first religion
was natural religions.
They were afraid of the
nature of the lightening,
of the thundering,
of the earthquake
or the volcanic
eruptions, et cetera.
But then the gods descended.
In Maya land,
Quetzalcoatl or Kukulkan
represented as a winged god.
What is the difference between
Quetzalcoatl, Kukulkan,
the winged god and the
natural catastrophes,
like the earthquake, the
lightning coming down?
They were teachers.
The gods who descended
from the sky,
they teach, they learned the
Maya about their calendar.
The Maya have a
fantastic calendar,
one of the most fantastic
calendars in the world.
And it all is
related to the gods.
[DRUMMING]
You see, every culture
has a calendar.
And every calendar
has a starting date.
For example, we live in
the Christian culture.
Our starting date is the
birth of Jesus Christ.
But the Muslim society
has another calendar.
And the Muslim calendar starts
when the prophet Muhammad
went to Mecca, about 700 AD.
So the Jewish tradition
has another calendar.
At the starting
point of the calendar
must always be something
important for the culture.
The Jewish calendar
started about 5300 BC.
And the reason was it was
the creating of the world,
of our planet.
Now the Maya also had
a special calendar.
And the Mayan calendar
started 3114 BC.
At that time, the Mayans,
according to our archeology,
did not even exist.
So they must have taken
their starting date
from their ancestors,
whoever it was.
Now, what has it to
do with the gods?
Why did the Maya
stop their calendar
on the August 14th, 3114 BC?
Why?
Later, about 450 years
ago, the Spanish conquerors
came to Central America.
The Spanish conquerors
found hundreds and hundreds
of Maya writings.
They destroyed them all.
They killed the high priests.
They even killed the students.
They destroyed all the writings
of the Maya, except three.
Three Maya writings survived.
They are today in Dresden.
Dresden is a city in Germany.
They are today in
Madrid and in Paris.
Now we are not even able to
read these Maya writings.
But the Dresden codex--
so that's how it is called--
speaks about the Maya calendar.
And we can read the figures.
Definitely we can read them.
And in the Dresden
codex we learn
that the Maya calendar started
on August 14th, 3114 BC.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now, all these writings
have been destroyed.
Just imagine we would
have a war in nowadays.
And an adversary would
destroy all the Bibles.
But the priests, the
Christian priests, they
know what's written
in the Bible.
They know it in their head.
So they start to
rewrite the Bible.
The same thing happened
in Central America.
After the destruction
of all these writings,
the priests sat down
in secret places,
and they rewrote
the old stories.
These are so-called the Mexican
handwritings, or the Chilam
Balam books, they are called.
And there, in the fifth Chilam
Balam book, one of the priests
explains why they started their
calendar on August 14, 3114
BC, because this was the day
when the gods from heaven
descended.
That was the important
moment for the beginning
of the Maya calendar.
The Maya calendar has,
in fact, an ending date.
And ending date was
calculated some years
ago for the year 2012,
transferred into our calendar.
And they said on that date,
the world will disappear,
the world will collapse.
In fact, nowhere, in no
one Maya handwriting,
it is written that the
world will collapse around
the end of the Maya date.
It's not true.
But what, in fact, they
say is true, on that day,
the gods will return from
heaven to earth again.
Now the year 2012 passed by.
And there were no
extraterrestrials returning.
So what is the mistake?
The problem is to
translate the Maya calendar
into our Christian calendar.
You see, we say today, 2017
years ago, Jesus Christ
was born.
And there, we
started our calendar.
But in reality,
this is not true.
Jesus Christ may have been
born 20 years earlier or later.
We don't know the exact date
of the birth of Jesus Christ.
We just fixed a date
which is not correct.
So when we translate
the Maya calendar
into a Christian
calendar, we still
have this problem of
translating the dates.
So the Maya calendar
ends and says,
then the gods will return.
This might be every day,
practically today, tomorrow,
or in the next 15 years.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Palenque is the one
sensation among the Maya.
And I would say Palenque is
the one sensation concerning
the whole idea of
extraterrestrials.
In 1949, the Mexican
archaeologist Professor Ruz
discovered on the
temple of inscription.
But the temple of inscription
is, in reality, a pyramid.
It is carved a
groove up at the top.
And then they found a shaft.
Inside the shaft, a stairway,
staircase going down.
It went down under the pyramid.
But the staircase in that time,
in 1949, was full of big stone.
So it took three years to
dig out all these stones.
In 1952, Professor Dr. Ruz,
with his students in archeology,
they stand before a
big door in the form,
in the shape of a triangle.
They never found a door in
the shape of a triangle.
The door was broken up.
And Professor Ruz, with
his candles and his light,
looked into a room.
And the first words he said,
I don't believe my eyes.
I seen a sort of chapel.
And from the ceiling down are
hanging things like candles.
In reality, they were
not just candles.
It was stalactites
and stalagmites.
So the room is
seven meters long.
And on the bottom, there was
a big plate with big, I mean,
3.80 meter long, 2.20
meter large, one block,
one monolith-- and
on this monolith,
an incredible chiseling.
You see something like a frame.
And in the center
of the frame, there
is a young man sitting,
bending forward, almost
like a motor-racing cyclist.
He uses his two hands
to manipulate controls.
You see it clearly
in the picture.
And he is sitting on a chair.
Directly on his nose is some
kind of apparatus, maybe
some oxygen apparatus.
He's sitting on a chair.
The heel of his left foot
is on a sort of pedal.
The chair is separated
from the back of him.
And just behind,
outside the frame,
you see something like a linking
flame coming out of there.
Now this is optically,
absolutely convincing
for every normal
human being, but not
for the groups of
archaeologists.
Of course, we live in
a reasonable society.
And our science always looks
for the next reasonable answer
before they go into
speculation, which is normal;
which makes sense.
Around this stone plate,
there was an inscription.
And only a few words
they could decipher.
For example, the word Pakal.
And they knew Pakal was
the second last ruler
of the city of Palenque.
So they said, this man
sitting in this frame inside,
he represents Pakal.
And I said, he is not
sitting in a frame.
The frame, in reality,
shows the open mouths
of a mythological monster.
So what I look as
frame is just the teeth
of the mythological monster.
And he's falling into the mouth
of this mythological monster.
But out of his chest,
you see the living tree,
or the tree of life, et cetera.
And what I explained is
something like a linking flame
coming out at the end.
Archaeologists said
no, these are just
the stylized hairs of the
beard of the weather god.
So this was an
archaeological suggestion
when they found this
tombstone of Palenque in 1952.
In the meantime, from
1952 until today,
I have read in the
scientific literature
14 different explanations
what this should mean.
It is always Pakal,
that's for sure--
Pakal, the second last ruler.
And now, just a few years ago,
the two leading epigraphers--
epigraphers are the
people, the professors,
who are able to read
the Maya language--
Professor Dr. George
Stuart and Stuart--
of course, it's the father
and son, Stuart and Stuart.
And they know everything now in
Maya graphics, in Maya writing.
And they say, yes, it is Pakal.
But Pakal is not falling
into the open mouth
of a mythological monster.
It has nothing to do with a
cross of life or tree of life.
Every little thing which
is chiseled in the stone
has to do with the universe.
Pakal is, in fact,
leaving the earth,
flying out to the universe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So the tombstone of
Palenque is still
there in the original
pyramid, because it's too big.
They cannot put it out.
Normally, pyramids
were not tombs.
But the so-called Temple
of Inscription in Palenque,
which is a pyramid,
was, in fact, a tomb.
Under this tombstone
there was a grave.
And they found a skeleton.
The skeleton had a mask.
It's probably Pakal, Pakal, the
second last ruler of Palenque.
But what we do not understand--
the normal Maya, their size, was
about 1 meter 50 to 1 meter 60.
And that skeleton in there
of Pakal is 1 meter 81.
He's too big for a Maya.
You know, 1 meter
81 is not Maya-like.
And also, his nose is not human,
because the bone of his nose
starts already on
his front up there.
So we say it's Pakal, but
nobody is sure if it's Pakal.
Now concerning the
stalactites and stalagmites.
Soon, as a pyramid
is somehow broken,
and the rain goes
into the pyramid,
some stalactites and
stalagmites start to form.
But this takes an eternity.
They found seven meter long
stalactites and stalagmites
in this room, which is
situated under the pyramid.
Don't forget this.
Because of the stalactites,
you could measure or calculate
how old is this room.
It does not fit to the Maya.
The Maya is a relatively
young society.
And Palenque is more or less
about 800 AD, so after Christ.
It's not very old.
Others say even younger,
they say 1400 after Christ.
But it does not fit together
with the stalactites
and stalagmites.
First, we had this
tomb down in the earth.
This tomb was covered
by this large tombstone
with the chiseling of Pakal.
And later, early
on, they started
to construct the
pyramid over the tomb.
The tomb is much older
than the pyramid itself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I believe that first there
was a tomb, tomb down
with the holy figure, one of the
gods, or a mixture of the gods,
or an imitation of the gods.
And they chiseled this into
this gigantic tombstone.
And this was there, a
holy place for the Maya,
or the people who
lived before the Maya,
for thousands of years.
And only later, because
it was a holy place, now
they started to construct a
pyramid, the so-called temple
of inscription,
over the old tomb.
So in my suggestion, the tomb
is probably 5,000 years old,
because of the stalactites
and stalagmites.
And the temple itself,
the temple of inscription,
is young, let's say
maybe 1,500 years old.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Every Maya city, be it
Tikal, be it Chichen Itza,
it doesn't matter.
They show the descending gods.
All these Maya cities are
dedicated to the gods.
And the gods were the
teachers from heaven.
They worshipped them.
And they always waited for
the return of the gods,
because the gods promised
we will return one day.
I know from
different mythologies
that the so-called gods,
the extraterrestrials,
had sexual contact with humans.
Now concerning Maya culture,
I told all the Maya writings
were destroyed.
And later, the priests
rewrote their old knowledge.
In all this
knowledge, nothing is
written that there
was a sexual contact
between the so-called
gods and the humans.
Not in the Maya world.
In other places
of the world, yes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[CHANTING]
We all are descendants
of the gods.
We have writings which say
that Noah, our progenitor
father which survived the
flood, was the product
of an artificial mutation.
Now we all are
offspring of Noah.
So we all have
extraterrestrial genes in us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The Mayans knew that the
gods, when they descended,
the Mayans knew that the gods
were the teachers, because they
learned the astronomy.
And they had a
fantastic astronomy.
The Maya knew, for example,
the astronomy, the surrounding
of Venus around the sun, so
precise that, in 6,000 years,
there's only a difference
of about one hour.
So the teachers from heaven
were the extraterrestrials.
They knew this.
Now every Maya city was
constructed for the gods.
And in every Maya city,
doesn't matter where you are,
you see these heads,
these helmets.
You see these beings.
Sometimes they have
boxes on their chest.
They use their 10 fingers
to manipulate some controls,
some knots on the box.
So it's imitating technology.
Maya land is full
with these things.
The question is clear.
The gods were extraterrestrials.
I'm Erich von Daniken.
Join me next time on
"Beyond the Legends."
[THEME MUSIC]